---
layout: page
title: English CV
permalink: /english_cv/
---

## Profile

Masatoshi Suzuki is a Ph.D. candidate at [Graduate School of Information Sciences](https://www.is.tohoku.ac.jp/en/), [Tohoku University](http://www.tohoku.ac.jp/en/). He is majoring in computer science, and his research interests are in natural language processing, especially in question answering and knowledge acquisition.

## Education

### Ph.D., Information Science: April 2018 --

Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University, Japan
**Supervisors:** Kentaro Inui, Jun Suzuki

### M.S., Information Science: April 2016 -- March 2018

Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University, Japan
**Supervisors:** Kentaro Inui, Naoaki Okazaki, Jun Suzuki
**Thesis:** Introducing Reading Comprehension into IR-Based Question Answering (In Japansese)

### B.E., Engineering: April 2010 -- March 2016

School of Engineering, Tohoku University, Japan
**Supervisors:** Kentaro Inui, Naoaki Okazaki
**Thesis:** Multiple Labeling of Extended Named Entity Classes on Wikipedia Articles (In Japansese)

## Experience

### Trainee Student: May 2019 --

Language Information Access Technology Team, RIKEN AIP Center

### Research Fellow, DC2: April 2019 --

Japan Society for the Promotion of Science

### Doctoral Course Student: April 2018 --

Division for Interdisciplinary Advanced Research, Tohoku University

### Scholarship Student: April 2016 -- March 2018

Shoshisha Foundation

## Skills

### Language

#### English

- TOEIC Score 990 (2017)
- TOEFL ITP Score 623 (2013)
- EIKEN Grade Pre-1 (2010)

#### Japanese

- Native

### Programming

- Python (PyTorch and Chainer for ML researches)

## Publications

### Journal Papers

1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Satoshi Sekine, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. 2018. **A Joint Neural Model for Fine-Grained Named Entity Classiﬁcation of Wikipedia Articles.** IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems, E101.D(1):73--81.

### International Conferences

1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Satoshi Sekine, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. 2016. **Fine-Grained Named Entity Classiﬁcation with Wikipedia Article Vectors.** In 2016 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence (WI), pages 483--486.
1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Satoshi Sekine, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. 2016. **Neural Joint Learning for Classifying Wikipedia Articles into Fine-grained Named Entity Types.** In Proceedings of the 30th Paciﬁc Asia Conference on Language, Information and Computation: Posters, pages 535--544.

### Domestic Conferences

1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Hiroki Ouchi, Jun Suzuki, and Kentaro Inui. 2019. **Utilization of Large-Scale Unlabeled Corpora for Solving Quizbowl (In Japanese).** In the 241st Meeting of Special Interest Group of Natural Language Processing in Information Processing Society of Japan (IPSJ-SIGNL). **\[Excellent Research Award\]**
1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Hiroki Ouchi, Jun Suzuki, and Kentaro Inui. 2019. **Utilization of Large-Scale Unlabeled Corpora for Solving Quizbowl (In Japanese).** In the 14th Symposium of Young Researcher Association for NLP Studies (YANS).
1. Takumi Sato, Hiroki Ouchi, Koji Matsuda, Masatoshi Suzuki, Jun Suzuki, and Kentaro Inui. 2019. **Analyzing Program Sequences Generated by Reinforcement Learning for TableQA tasks (In Japanese).** In Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Association for Natural Language Processing (NLP), pages 1010--1013.
1. Koji Matsuda, Masatoshi Suzuki, and Kentaro Inui. 2019. **Large-Scale Knowledge Acquisition from Wikidata via Distant Supervision (In Japanese).** In Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Association for Natural Language Processing (NLP), pages 659--662.
1. Kaori Abe, Shiki Sato, Takumi Sato, Ryo Fujii, Koji Matsuda, Masatoshi Suzuki, Kenshi Yamaguchi, Reina Akama, Hiroki Ouchi, Jun Suzuki, and Kentaro Inui. 2018. **Zunkobot: A Multiple Knowledge Bases Integrated Chatbot System (In Japanese).** In Special Interest Group on Spoken Language Understanding and Dialogue Processing (SIG-SLUD), B5(02):112--117.
1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. 2018. **Creating QA Dataset Annotated with Answerability by Reading Comprehension (In Japanese).** In Proceedings of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Association for Natural Language Processing (NLP), pages 702--705. **\[Young Incentive Award\]**
1. Satoshi Sekine, Maya Ando, Akio Kobayashi, Koji Matsuda, Masatoshi Suzuki, Duc Nguyen, and Kentaro Inui. 2018. **Dataset of Extended Named Entities on Wikipedia (In Japanese).** In Proceedings of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Association for Natural Language Processing (NLP), pages 504--507.
1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. 2017. **Question Answering by Information Retrieval and Reading Comprehension with Wikipedia as Knowledge Base (In Japanese).** In the 12th Symposium of Young Researcher Association for NLP Studies (YANS).
1. Takumi Ito, Masatoshi Suzuki, Ran Tian, Kenshi Yamaguchi, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. 2017. **Towards Creating QA Systems of Local Governments: Cross-City Analysis on FAQs (In Japanese).** In the 12th Symposium of Young Researcher Association for NLP Studies (YANS).
1. Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Satoshi Sekine, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. 2015. **Automated Classiﬁcation of Wikipedia Entries into Extended Named Entity Hierarchy (In Japanese).** In the 10th Symposium of Young Researcher Association for NLP Studies (YANS).
